---
layout: post
title: "Registration Announcement"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
markdown: kramdown
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[***Register***](http://www.acert.cornell.edu/index_files/Registration_Form_ACERT2015_Workshop.pdf)*** 
before the late fee deadline....***

2015 ACERT WORKSHOP      

Computational Methods in ESR
----------------------------

Cornell University, Ithaca, New York USA

June 9-12, 2015
=========================================

Plans continue for ACERT's (Center for Advanced ESR Technology) workshop
entitled “**Computational Methods in ESR**” taking place **on June
9-12** at Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. 
[Registrations](http://www.acert.cornell.edu/index_files/Registration_Form_ACERT2015_Workshop.pdf)
are being accepted. The workshop will have **two parts**:  the **first
part** will consist of lectures on state-of-the-art methods and the
**second part** will involve hands-on experience on the actual use of
the software.  

*** SPEAKERS, TOPICS AND SOFTWARE***

**Part 1: Lectures**

***ACERT SPEAKERS***

* **Freed, Jack**

    ***Introduction to Computational ESR and to Producing Noiseless Spectra from Noisy Ones***

* **Liang, Zhichun**

    ***Motional Dynamics for 1 and 2 Nitroxides by Two-Dimensional ESR***

* **Keith Earle**

    ***Multi-Frequency ESR and a New Tool for Simulating Saturated Spectra in
the Slow-Motional Regime***

***INVITED SPEAKERS***

* **Christian Altenbach,**

    UCLA Los Angeles, CA

    ***EPR Data Analysis for the Rest of Us***

* **Peter Fajer,** 

    Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL

    ***Simulations of the Rotamer Structure of Spin Labels***

* **Ilya Kuprov,**

    Southampton University, Southampton, UK


    ***Large-Scale Magnetic Resonance Simulations***

* **Saba Mattar,**

    University of New Brunswick, Canada

    ***Theory and Computation of hf and g Tensors by DFT***

* **Alex Nevzorov,**

    North Carolina State University, Raleigh NC


    ***Many-Body Theory of Electron-Electron and Electron-Nucleus
Relaxation***

* **Antonino Polimeno,**

    University of Padua, Padua, Italy

    ***Stochastic Modeling of Flexible Systems in Solution***

* **Yevhen Polyhach and Stefan Pribitzer,**

    ETH Zürich, Switzerland

    ***Coarse-grained Simulation Approaches for Rotamer Libraries***

* **Deniz Sezer,**

    Sabanci University, Istanbul, Turkey

    ***Biomolecular ESR and DNP … in SILICO***

* **Stefan Stoll,**

    University of Washington, Seattle, Washington


    ***EasySpin***

**Part 2: Hands-on Software Tutorials featuring:**

-   **EasySpin: S. Stoll**

-   **LabVIEW programs for ESR Fitting and Simulation (MultiComponent
    and LongDistances)**: **C. Altenbach**

-   **SPIDYAN a new open-source software package: S. Pribitzer (ETH)**

-   **MMM: Y. Polyhach**

-   **Spinach: I. Kuprov**

-   **NLSL: J. Franck (ACERT)**

-   **ORCA: S. Mattar**

-   **Simulation of Rotamer Structures with Charmm and Matlab: P.
    Fajer**

-   **Stochastic Approach to fLExible Molecules (SALEM): A. Polimeno**

***Who Should Attend***: This workshop is suited for graduate students,
postdocs, and active researchers and Principal Investigators in ESR who
would benefit from learning the modern computational methods that can be
utilized in their research.  Attendees are encouraged to bring their
personal laptops.

***FOR MORE INFORMATION*** about the workshop and registration: Email us
at <acert@cornell.edu>

***POSTERS:***

Do you wish to make a poster presentation? Please use the registration
form for submitting your tentative title.

***REGISTRATION Fees*** are as follows:

**US$ 450.00 REGULAR** Registration (Late fee May 1st, $550.00)

**US$ 300.00 STUDENT** Registration (Late fee May 1st, $400.00)

Fee includes the workshop and materials, coffee breaks, 3 lunches,
reception, and dinner.  

**US$ 150.00 ACCOMPANYING PERSON** (Late fee May 1st, $200.00) Fee
includes the coffee breaks, 3 lunches, reception, and dinner.  

**PAYMENT Methods:**

-   *Checks* should be made payable to “Cornell University.”

-   For *Direct Bank Transfer* payment instructions, please see [Bank
    Transfer
    Instructions](http://www.acert.cornell.edu/index_files/BANK_WIRE_TRANSFERS_INSTRUCTIONS.pdf)

-   For *Credit Card*: Use the Cornell Business Services URL:
    <https://creditcard.cbs.cornell.edu/billing.aspx?eventid=8A7E5FC4-1ADC-40D6-943F-4601BFEE802B>

***TO REGISTER*** for the workshop, [click
here](http://www.acert.cornell.edu/index_files/Registration_Form_ACERT2015_Workshop.pdf)

**Mail or Email your REGISTRATION** to:

**ACERT 2015 COMPUTATIONAL METHODS Workshop**

B28 Baker Laboratory

Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853 USA

Phone: 607-255-4632

Fax: 607-255-6969

E-mail: <acert@cornell.edu>

 

***WORKSHOP Preliminary Agenda***

**Tuesday June 9<sup>th</sup>**

-   Evening: Workshop Reception.  (Dinner on your own)

**Wednesday June 10<sup>th</sup>**

-   7:30am – 8:30am Coffee and Registration.

-   8:40am Lectures Begin.

-   Lectures are 40 minutes followed by 10 minutes of discussion for
    each talk.

-   After the opening introductory lecture by Jack Freed, the talks will
    emphasize Computational Methods for: Stochastic Liouville Equation
    for 1D and 2D ESR for Proteins and Membranes; Stochastic Modeling
    and Molecular Dynamics for ESR; Many-Body Theory for Spin Relaxation
    in Solids; MMM-type Methods for Predicting Distance Distributions
    for DEER and DQC; DFT Theory for g and hf Tensors.

-   Special Winery Dinner (optional)

**Thursday June 11th**

-   7:30am – 8:30am Coffee

-   8:40am Computer Lab begins

-   Hands-on Experiences for 1 to 1.5 hours per Exercise. 

-   Conference Dinner

**Friday June 12th**

-   7:30am – 8:30am Coffee

-   8:40am Completion of Computer Lab

-   Workshop ends after lunch

***Hotels***

Special Conference Rate Hotels: NOTE: Extremely Limited Availability,
Please BOOK EARLY.

**Best Western University Inn**, located next to the Cornell campus.

**ACERT Conference Rate** of US $129.00 (single or double).  Free WiFi
and complimentary breakfast buffet.  Reservation can be made by phone
(607) 272-6100 or 1-800-WESTERN or fax (607) 272-1518. Please request
the “ACERT Conference Rate” when make your reservation.  Free shuttle
service to and from Cornell University, Tompkins County Airport and
downtown Ithaca Commons. 
<http://www.bestwesternuniversityinnithaca.com/>

**Comfort Inn,** 356 Elmira Road, Ithaca   

**ACERT Conference Rate** US $109.00 (single or double).  Reservation
can be made by phone (607) 272-0100 or Fax: (607) 272-2405. Please
request the “ACERT Conference Rate” when make your reservation. Free
WiFi and complimentary breakfast buffet, Free shuttle service to and
from Cornell University, Tompkins County Airport and downtown Ithaca
Commons.  <http://www.comfortinn.com/hotel-ithaca-new_york-NY199>

**Courtyard Marriott,** 29 Thornwood Drive, Ithaca   

**ACERT Conference Rate** US $143.00/night.  Book online: visit
[marriott.com/ITHCY](http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/ithcy-courtyard-ithaca/),
enter corporate/promotional code ZUJ . Or call 866-237-5979 and ask for
the Cornell University Visitor’s Rate. Hotel is located just 4 miles
from Cornell University. Offers complimentary shuttle service to
Cornell, Ithaca Commons, and Ithaca Tompkins Regional Airport (ITH).
High-speed wireless Internet is free throughout. Pool and fitness
center. Casual eatery is open for breakfast and dinner and serves wine
and beer in the evening and coffee all day long.
 <http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/ithcy-courtyard-ithaca/>

**Other Hotels**: <http://www.visitithaca.com/lodging/hotels-motels>

***Meals*:**

Included are: Tuesday Opening Reception, Coffee Breaks, 3 Lunches, and
Conference Dinner on Thursday.

Coffee breaks and Buffet Lunches will be held adjacent to the meeting
room.

If you wish, a very short walk will take you to Collegetown where there
are a number of local restaurants. 

Wednesday dinner is optional for an extra charge.

**VISITOR Travel to Ithaca, New York and The Fingerlakes**:

<http://www.visitithaca.com/>

<http://www.flyithaca.com/>

<http://www.syrairport.org/>

**Cornell (Ithaca Campus)-New York City Express Bus**:
<http://transportation.fs.cornell.edu/coach/reservations/default.cfm>

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ACERT - National Biomedical Center for Advanced ESR Technology **

Cornell University

Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology

Baker Laboratory - B28

Ithaca, NY 14853 USA

<acert@cornell.edu>

Ph: (607) 255-4632

Fax: (607) 255-6969

Website:   [www.acert.cornell.edu](http://www.acert.cornell.edu)

----------------------------------------------------------------

 
